.TH JOBSERVER 3

.SH NAME

jobserver_getenv_, jobserver_setenv_ - access the jobserver environment
variable

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <jobserver.h>

.B int jobserver_getenv_(int * \fIread\fP, int * \fIwrite\fP, bool * \fIdry_run\fP, bool * \fIdebug\fP, bool * \fIKeep_going\fP);
.br
.B int jobserver_setenv_(int \fIread\fP, int \fIwrite\fP, bool \fIdry_run\fP, bool \fIdebug\fP, bool \fIkeep_going\fP);

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.BR jobserver_getenv_ ()
function looks for the
.I read
and
.I write
file descriptors of the jobserver token pipe as well as its
\fIdry_run\fP, \fIdebug\fP, and \fIkeep_going\fP status.

The
.BR jobserver_setenv_ ()
function sets the jobserver token pipe file descriptors
.I read
and
.I write
in the environment as well as the
\fIdry_run\fP, \fIdebug\fP, and \fIkeep_going\fP statuses.

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, the
.BR jobserver_getenv_ ()
and
.BR jobserver_setenv_ ()
functions return \fB0\fP. On error, \fP-1\fP is returned and
\fIerrno\fP is set accordingly.

The
.BR jobserver_getenv_ ()
function returns \fB0\fP and both \fIread\fP and \fIwrite\fP are set to \fB-1\fP
if the jobserver is non existant, either because the
\fBMAKEFLAGS\fP environment variable is not defined or because the
\fB--jobserver-auth\fP (or \fB--jobserver-fds\fP) option is not used
(see \fBENVIRONMENT\fP in \fBjobserver\fP(7)).
The \fIdry_run\fP, \fIdebug\fP, and \fIkeep_going\fP statuses, if present,
are always collected.

The
.BR jobserver_setenv_ ()
function overwrites any preexisting jobserver. When \fIread\fP and \fIwrite\fP
are negative, the jobserver is completely removed from the environment. Note that
this may not remove the \fBMAKEFLAGS\fP variable from the environment and that
other options corresponding to the \fIdry_run\fP, \fIdebug\fP, and \fIkeep_going\fP
status of the process are kept.

.SH ERROR

.TP
.B EBADF
(\fBjobserver_getenv_\fP())
One of the \fIread\fP or \fIwrite\fP file descriptor could not be parsed.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
(\fBjobserver_setenv_\fP())
Not enough memory to add or change the \fBMAKEFLAGS\fP environment variable.

.SH ATTRIBUTES

For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.ad l
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR jobserver_getenv_ ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe env, locale
T{
.BR jobserver_setenv_ ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Unsafe const:env
.TE
.ad

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR jobserver (7),
.BR jobserver_getenv (3),
.BR jobserver_setenv (3),
.BR jobserver_unsetenv (3)
